>> Steve Kinney: So let's actually look at
a challenge that we're going to try out.
So I'm gonna toss it over to you first and
then we'll kind of do it together.
Is if we go down here, we've got.
Which one do we want to do?
Let's have you do the navigation, right.
And so, navigation is a pretty
common pattern in this case.
So we can go down here and
we've got what we would like to be
a navigation bar at some point.
Right now, I don't think it fits the mark.
This does not look like a navigation bar
to me that I've seen on any site ever.
And so what we want to do is see, can
we lay this out in a way with a certain
amount of flex and we'll go for a little
victory lap with some of the styling and
see what we can do in that case as well.
But can we begin to start applying
a flexbox where we'll immediately see
some of the pieces go into a horizontal
line and get looking at a little bit
of dealer's choice on how
exactly far we want to take it.
But this is not a navigation
bar I've ever seen in my life.
So we want to begin to lay it out.
We'll give it a little bit of flex.
I'll come back and show you in about 10
minutes and then we'll take it for a spin.
Our challenge is to make this
very simple nav look like a nav.
The only special thing here is we
just reuse the same linked item so
I don't have to write
the same class 42 times.
Like I said before, Tailwind does work
under the assumption that you have some
kind of component system that could be
anything, that could be server generated.
But the idea that if you were just editing
a vanilla HTML page, you will find
yourself either getting very good at
multi cursor support in your editor or
coming up with some kind of
repeatable way of doing things.
This starts out, we're allowed to
change anything as we go along.
We're going to probably switch back and
forth a little bit because this one's
a little wide and
I need my screen real estate.
But we'll take a look.
So just to remind ourselves
of the starting position,
that is not a navigation bar, right?
So the first thing we're gonna
do is exactly what we saw in
the previous section.
We'll say class is flex.
And.
Okay, that gets me some of the way there.
Looks like the actual list also
needs to be a flex, right?
All right, slowly but surely, we're at
least headed in the right direction.
Now.
We probably want to put some
spacing between things so
we can start even just on those
various menu items there.
We can give it a gap of
whatever feels right.
8.
I'm gonna start out with here.
Okay.
Like, those are good.
There is some space here, though.
Now what we probably want is,
like, the, like,
company name over here on this side, and
maybe we'll push the rest of the stuff.
We can play around with some
different options in a second.
So that's where some of those justify and
alignments come in as well.
So what we could do here is we could say
flex, and we're gonna say justify-between,
which is,
if you look over that space-between.
I don't listen to Dave Matthews, but
it always makes me think of that
Dave Matthews song that I don't like,
which will then kind of take the elements
and kind of push them off to each side or
put space in between each one.
If you had three or four, it would kind
of equal spacing in between each one.
All right, now it looks like
we're kinda getting there,
so becoming more and
more like a navigation bar, right?
And on the flex level,
we basically have it.
But we can do a few more things here where
we can say that this has got a class of,
I don't know, font bold.
We've even used bold before, extra bold.
Cool, cool, cool.
And let's say we wanted to make
that a different size as well.
We can do something like that.
Let's say xl.
All right, so now we've got
kind of that in place as well.
For these links, what we could do is say.
Now.
We know how to do a border, but
that's not gonna give us what we want,
that's gross.
What we might wanna do is say,
we only want a border on the bottom.
And we saw this before in the very
beginning of the workshop with stuff like
padding and margin,
where we can do border bottom.
And let's give it a border-bottom of 4.
So that works like that.
I could put on the link too,
which I might choose to do as well.
And let's mix some other things in
there where we could say something like
that each one of these is a group,
and should they hover at all.
Group hover.
We'll say that the background should be.
Wes, what's our company color?
Red.
I mean, I asked, so I gotta go with it.
Right.
>> Speaker 2: Oracle red.
>> Steve Kinney: Oracle red.
Twilio red.
Right, so you could say,
if they're group-hover.
I might actually want to make the whole
thing background red, though.
Let's give these all
a little bit of padding too.
That's too much,
we'll give it x of 4, py of 2.
>> Steve Kinney: Only if they hover,
though,
we can begin to lay some stuff out.
Now what you'll see here though is things
are a little wonky, especially if I either
A, use the developer tools or
B, just make more backgrounds.
We can kind of see.
But the developer tools
are really handy here,
which is if you look at Unicorn Corp,
right, it's kind of like up towards
the top while everything else is,
you know, because these take up.
More height than the actual kind
of company logo in this case.
So we have a few options here.
We could center it, which is just
simply we can do item center.
And now you can see it's
kind of in the middle.
Or if you wanted it at the bottom,
you can do items end.
And now it will sit along the baseline.
Looking at this,
I think that I like in the center.
And we can even do like a.
Do a bottom border here too,
if we wanted to,
just to make a point, say border.
I don't like those on there anymore.
Now we're getting to stylistic things.
But yeah,
we can tweak it as much as we want.
But yeah, we can lay stuff out incredibly
quickly without a lot of context
switching.
And there is a lot more that
you could do with flexbox.
So let's also kinda take
a tour of some of that.
But if we look at it real quick,
very quickly, we got a.
We could argue we can tweak some of
the colors and style, I'm not a designer.
But the general layout with very little
typing just by having these utility
classes ready to go.
So we hover any given one of these,
they're all kind of adding
the different pieces as we go.
And if these were in normal css,
we might make a class called Navigation.
Or just on the nav, where we would
put a property flex or display flex,
justify-content space-between,
item-center.
And we, again, put another flex and
we'd have, again,
repeating ourselves in the properties.
We can kind of take these utility classes,
pick and choose the pieces that we need,
and assemble our own lightsaber
incredibly quickly as well.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
I did SpaceX 4 versus GAT 4 and
they basically kind of
look the same to me.
However, if I hover over them,
SpaceX 4 is a lot more complicated.
>> Steve Kinney: Let's see,
where did you put the spaceX 4?
>> Speaker 3: You know how you have Gap 4?
>> Steve Kinney: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: Or you did have Gap 4.
I did SpaceX.
Yeah.
You have Gap 8.
Space X 8, maybe.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, those are 8.
I mean, both work for
Flexbox since that is a Flex property.
Cuz if you look at this,
I mean it visually looks like.
But like where it might get
squirrely over time is right.
They have these margins versus,
you can kinda see that they take up
the full space and have these
margins versus if we got a gap 8 and
we take a look at the developer tools-
>> Speaker 3: What I did is I just hovered
over that and in there it seems to
show me the CSS that gets generated.
Is that what you do too?
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Okay, okay, yeah.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, I think since
this gap is a flexbox property,
I would probably just stick
to all the flexbox or
all the grid properties instead
of mixing and matching.
But there's probably a use case for both.
But I would probably,
if I'm already using Flex,
I'll probably stick with
the Flex properties.
Even this is a nested flexbox, and
so kinda keeping that probably
makes sense in this case.
Let's go take a look at some of
the other kind of like flexboxy things.
So just a way to kind of see some
of the properties in this case.
So out of the box,
if we just say something,
these are all the kind of flex defaults,
right?
And let's make the container
height a little smaller so
I can fit everything on screen.
So this is what you get by default
out of a flexbox kind of situation.
So we had that flex direction
we saw before, we did row.
We can do column, which point they go
become a column like that Column reverse,
which point they go in the opposite order.
Row reverse.
You get 2, 1, 0, right?
So normally I think unless you have
a very special use case, a lot of
the times what you will tend to see is
probably like Flex row or Flex column.
And again,
these all map to CSS properties out of the
box by default you will get a Flex row.
If you define nothing, you'll see
that there is no difference between
the Automatic default of OttawaFlexBoxes
and Flex Row because the automatic
default is Flex row column being
the other very popular one in this case.
Cool.
Then that justify content at the beginning
it is usually the default is start.
So nothing changes.
If we want to start it at the end.
That works.
The normal ones we see a lot of times
is we saw center earlier and in
the nav bar we did that between where it
Puts an even space in between all of them.
What's great is as stuff changes,
those will automatically be flexible.
And it will just keep flexible
space in between all of them.
There's also like justify
around which will also put
some space start and
after what other fun ones evenly and
some ones that I've never
used before in my life.
Then we have that kind of those
align-items where we can do all
the items up towards the beginning.
You can see the default is to
kinda stretch them all the items
towards the end.
The one that I use all the time
is center them for me, right?
And so if you did item center and you did.
We saw before justify center,
you get that nice vertically and
horizontally centered piece as well.
So you can kind of like mix and
match these as one does.
We can change that gap, you know, gap four
puts a little bit of space in between
them no matter what,
even if they are next to each other, 14.
It's just how many REMs you want
at a certain point, like built in,
you can go all the way up to 96, which
is bigger than we need for this case.
Yeah, so you can begin to kind
of get a sense of all these.
Most of the time it's usually
item center for me, justify.
I'm either centering or space between.
Flex direction is either row or column.
That will get you.
It's an 80-20 principle.
Like those like 3,
4 properties will get you 90% of the way
there most of the time and give you a lot
of like power in that sense as well.
And again,
you can use these basically anywhere for
like larger layout things or just
aligning like, hey, I want the label to
be centered with a input field that got
a little bit bigger, so on and so forth.
Right.
Like,
I'll kind of show you real quick in
that input we were playing with earlier,
you know, we did that stacked look,
which I think is pretty good.
But if I wanted to have them like,
let's go take a look at it.
If I wanted this to be more like
to have the label to the right or
label to the left and the input to
the right, I could do something like
that where I could just say Instead
of space Y1, we'll say flex.
And now you can see that
they are next to each other.
Now if I didn't want the words to break,
I can actually change that as well.
I can just say whitespace-nowrap,
and now that won't wrap at all.
And I can give this
a little bit of a gap too.
Now, if you look, though,
at this, you can kind of see that
there is some interesting padding and
stuff like that.
So we could point this where I would play
around with that item center as well, and
so on and so forth.
But I did also a bunch of
other squirrely stuff here.
But usually item center will kind
of get it a little more aligned.
So you can kind of see that it's, like,
centered along that axis that goes
across the Flexbox, just like that.